---
layout: default
title: An Autumn's Tale
date: 2020-03-21 22:04:38 -0600
---
<div class="video-container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/S7RKXY2GpUc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
... in a way, I was thinking of my parents while watching this movie. I would not be surprised if some of the scenes in the film may have similarities to their lives before I was born. Technically speaking, "An Autumn's Tale" is a Hong Kong film, but I would characterize it as one of the early Asian American films, a few years just before "The Joy Luck Club" was released in 1993. The dialogue is primarily Cantonese, but it is an American story, set in New York City. Chow Yun Fat, in one of his lesser known roles that don't involve butt-kicking, is Samuel Pang, a sometime gambler, and a waiter. He takes in Jennifer, who has moved to New York City to be closer to her boyfriend, Vincent. "An Autumn's Tale" is a romance, but not a rom-com. A [review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SL8bYZ9nbAE&t=159s) of "An Autumn's Tale" commented that it had the feeling of an indie film, which I would agree. The film is probably best compared to Richard Linklater's "Before Sunrise" or Wong Kar Wei's "Chungking Express." Like those other films, it has a somewhat unpolished, but youthful intimacy, probably helped by a shoestring budget, but likely also because the director, Mabel Cheung, was fairly young herself, similar to Richard Linklater while "Before Sunrise" and Wong Kar Wei during "Chungking Express". The mannerisms and dialogue are Chinese, but the background is the New York City. Between the setting, the primary language of Cantonese, and the broken English, I could see this may have reflected part of my parents life once upon a time, during their courtship in another American city.

The movie was filmed in the late 1980's, before New York City underwent gentrification. The New York City when it still had "character" as some native New Yorkers might put it. The apartment where Samuel Pang and Jennifer live is a dump, and Samuel Pang's car is just as old, with one of the doors unable to close. Graffiti and miscellaneous trash is all over the place. Many of the filming locations used in the film still exist; the same youtuber who posted the review also [scouted the locations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h0llLS4QWI0) used in the movie, and compared them to the present day.

On a personal note, I normally would have purchased this film on eBay, and then waited for the month or so for the package to arrive, but this time around, I was on a tighter time constraint and instead watched a copy of the film that was uploaded to an online streaming site. The subtitles were in korean, which I couldn't read, so all I had was the dialogue in the original language. Surprisingly, I understood about 60%-65% of the Cantonese dialogue. On a recent family dinner, I had completely forgotten how to say the Chinese word for "chopsticks" so I had anticipated that I would understand less of the Cantonese than I actually did.

One blemish I would have about this film is that Jennifer is Samuel Pang's distant cousin. It somewhat skirts the line of an incestuous love affair, although other that, the film itself works out well. It works as an immigrant story. It works as a romance story. It works as a Chinese story, and it also works as an American story.

