---
layout: default
title: "Dark"
date: 2020-12-31 19:27:12 23:18:13 -0500
---

> :warning: There may be spoilers to season 3 of "Dark" in this article.

... completing the arc at the end of the third season, "Dark" closes one of the most mind-bending, family drama, sci-fi time-travel programs. For those not familiar with "Dark", the series is closest to  the films "Predestination" and "Looper", but metastasized. In a way, "Dark" and the fictional German town of Winden becomes its own thought-experiment, as the series finds a way to untangle the vast web of paradoxes that has culminated over the three seasons. 

The series, I should mention, is not action-oriented, and in the third season, there aren't any light-hearted moments. It has been a while since I have seen the first and second seasons of the show, so I won't be able to comment much on it, but in the third season, the time jumps are more frequent. While the first season indulges in some nosalgia in the 1980's, there is less lingering in the third season and frequently hops between two parallel universes, and across time. Personally, I think it would have been humorous to see the difficult adjustment from Bartosz, Magnus and Franziska when they arrive in 1888. Had they traveled to the 1980's, at least the world would be recognizable, but in the late 19th century, attempting to live the daily life there would have required a supreme change. There was very few indoor plumbing for one thing, so I laugh just imagining the shock of these 21st century teens that going to the toilet means heading outside and probably using a bucket. Or their reaction to the strong and probably omnipresent stench of manure.

I will say that it is difficult to follow the different characters across the time periods, and the different paradoxical family relationships. The series does give a visual clue with the scars of which "Martha" is appearing, and the series often adds an editing cut between characters of different ages just to give some additional hints. Online fans of the show have created their resources, such as this [online wiki](https://dark-netflix.fandom.com/wiki/Dark_Wiki) and their own [family trees](https://taylorholmes.com/2020/07/07/the-definitive-netflix-dark-season-3-family-tree/).

On a philosophical angle, the themes that "Dark" encompass include predestination and determinism. Mentioned in the dialogue in the last two episodes of the series, is that the events in "Dark" had occurred many times before, and were destined to repeat themselves infinitely, if not for Claudia who informs the older, deformed Jonas of a way to break the cycle. There is also a kind of numerology in the series, in which three and its variations such as thirty-three has a special significance. 

