---
layout: default
title: "Guess Who's Coming To Dinner"
date: 2021-02-21 19:08:31 -0500
---
> "A guy told me one time 'Don't let yourself get attached to anything you are not willing to walk out on 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around the corner.'"

Christopher Nolan, who hosted a panel revisiting "Heat" 20 or so years later in 2016, mentioned that this film has become a classic, and I think, he is right. It may not be mentioned in the same breath as Hichcock's "Rear Window", the horror film "The Exorcist" or "Casablanca", but "Heat", released in 1995, is one of the memorable films of the 1990's.

The film is most known as the second film, after "Godfather, Part II" to feature both Robert De Niro and Al Pacino. By the mid-90's, both had already made their mark on cinema starting with their films in the '70s. "Taxi Driver" for Robert De Niro, "Dog Day Afternoon" and "The Godfather" for Al Pacino. The diner scene, where both of their characters, sit down for a chat, is perhaps one (of two) hallmarks of the film. The scene nicely defines the stakes for each character in an informal setting, and has been noted as the first scene that both actors share together.

The addition of both storied actors isn't the only reason why "Heat" stands much above many of the other films of the '90s. After all, Robert De Niro and Al Pacino would work together for two other subsequent films "The Irishman" and "Righteous Kill", the latter of which would flop. "Heat" takes the time to richly define each character, including some of the more minor ones. Vincent Hanna's zealous pursuit, and Neil McCauley's equal determination. In the diner scene, they are both sides of the same coin, but at opposite sides of the law. "Heat" also benefits from a strong supporting cast, from Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Ashley Judd and an early Natalie Portman. With a running time of three hours, "Heat" is a long film, but it doesn't feel that way. 

Lastly, the other major hallmark of "Heat" is the shootout. It is raw, loud and shocking. According to the [imdb trivia](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113277/trivia) section of the film, the shoot-out has been used as an example of a proper retreat under fire. The shoot-out is often ranked as one of the most memorable in films.