---
layout: default
title: "The Queen's Gambit"
date: 2021-05-16 17:46:26 -0400
---
... There was a chess club that I used to go to, back probably during my high school days. For novice, amateur players like myself, the hope is that by dumb luck, I would be able to dominate the board, thus leaving my opponent with just a few pieces left and the king to be easily trapped for a checkmate. There wasn't much of a strategy on my part, and I lost most games, although I won a couple by pure happenstance.

I can't say that my game has improved since then, and I have to say that other than a fascination with the craftsmanship of the board and pieces, I haven't played much of the game since then either. For most of the limited series, "The Queen's Gambit" goes into a deeper level of chess than I had ever played. The only chess move that I could recognize was the first one: the blitzkrieg, or the "Scholar's Mate" as it was called on the show. 

Mentioned in the behind the scenes video for "The Queen's Gambit", the filmmakers were careful not to focus on the chess too heavily and to concentrate on the trials and tribulations of Beth Harmon, the prodigy. Much of the credit goes to the leading actress, Anya Taylor-Joy, for showcasing Beth's strengths and her weaknesses. There is no need to know much about chess as Anya, and the editing cuts, gives the viewer an understanding when Beth may be struggling in her game, or when she is in the zone and thrashing the other players. The series has an international cast, many of whom were playing Americans. Thomas Brodie-Sangster, who has the role of Benny Watts, is from the UK. Some may recognize him as the love-struck boy in the 2003 film "Love Actually". Harry Potter fans may recognize Harry Melling, also from the UK, who has the role of Harry Beltik.

Of the classic chess masters mentioned in the show, the closest to Beth Harmon's story may be [Paul Morphy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Morphy). After starting to play chess as a young boy, he quickly rose to acclaim in his teens and early twenties, before retiring from chess to setup an unsuccessful law practice. He later died fairly young, at age 47. The final chess showdown in the show, between Beth and Borgov, is mostly likely inspired by the match between Bobby Fischer and Boris Spassky in 1972. To maintain accuracy of the game of chess, a number of chess consultants were part of the show, including Garry Kasparov. In an [interview](https://slate.com/culture/2020/11/queens-gambit-garry-kasparov-interview-netflix-chess-adviser.html) regarding his participation, the chess in the series might be more accurate than the chess in the original book by Walter Tevis.