---
layout: default
title: "Alien"
date: 2021-04-05 14:21:50 -0400
---

... of the science-fiction classics, one might think of "Metropolis", "Solaris" or "2001: A Space Odyssey". Some others might think of "Star Wars", "Terminator" or "Star Trek II: Wrath of Khan". Still others might think of more recent fare such as "Gattaca", "Children of Men" or "Ex Machina".

"Alien", released in 1979, would probably be included in most lists of film classics, alongside Ridley Scott's other science fiction film "Blade Runner." "Alien", as a film, is almost legendary. Even for people who may never have seen the film, they are probably familiar with the now-famous Xenomorph alien. Some may have heard of the "facehugger", or the "Space Jockey". It has inspired a recent [high school play](https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/29/18522863/watch-high-school-alien-production-adaptation-sigourney-weaver-ridley-scott) and a [production by London bus drivers](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2021/03/bus-drivers-bring-adaptation-of-alien-to-londons-west-end-in-alien-on-stage/).

"Alien" is a science-fiction, psycological horror film. Unlike "Predator", which would probably be considered a science-fiction action film, the Xenomorph appears only a few minutes, and it is more to elicit fear and terror. The first half of the film has a feel of a mystery. A broadcast signal is received, and the crew of the "Nostromo" are awakened to investigate. They discover an old derelict space-ship, with a fossilized humanoid skeleton with its chest burst open. A chamber with eggs is found, one of which hatches and attacks one of the crew members. The latter half as the crew are being hunted and killed, is more akin to horror.

The film has created a series of sequels, as well as a prequel trilogy that started with "Prometheus" and "Alien: Covenant". Sigourney Weaver as Ripley would return in the sequels; other than the Xenomorph species, she pretty much tied the sequels together in the original series of "Alien" films. It may be one reason, and this is just my own speculation, that the prequel films feel somewhat off. While the prequels explores some of the ideas and the backstory that were introducted in the original "Alien" film, the human characters in the prequel films differ from film to film.